---
feature_topic: FT_43_27_70_50
topic_title: prod_code_style
topic_status: TEST
---

## single same line for single arg

For any function signature of any function call with a single argument,
use the same line without a trailing comma.

Instead of this:

```py
def some_func(
    single_arg,
):
    pass

some_func(
    "single_arg",
)
```

use this:

```py
def some_func(single_arg):
    pass

some_func("single_arg")
```

## multiple lines for multiple args

For any function signature of any function call with multiple arguments,
use separate lines with the terminating trailing comma.

Instead of this:

```py
def some_func(arg_one, arg_two):
    pass

some_func("arg_one", "arg_two")
```

use this (with exceptions):

```py
def some_func(
    arg_one,
    arg_two,
):
    pass

some_func(
    "arg_one",
    "arg_two",
)
```

except for these built-in functions, for example:
*   `isinstance(object, type)`
*   `open(path, "w")`
*   `getattr(object, name)`

except for `dict` operations, for example:
*   `os.environ.get(key, default)`
*   `some_dict.pop(key, default)`

## single list item per line

Try to split any list items on a separate line as much as possible.

## trailing commas

Use terminating comma `,` for the last item in the list.

## multi-word ids

Try to name every variable with at least 2 words embedded into it.

For example:

```py
word1_word2: int = 0
```

This simplifies refactoring and search.

## above comments

Instead of trailing comment:

```py
some_variable: int = 0 # some comment
```

use above comment:

```py
# some comment:
some_variable: int = 0
```

## use constants

Instead of direct strings, try to use existing constants.

It is easier to refactor and inspect relationships in the code.

## use lower case for constant

No need to emphasize constants with `UPPER_CASE`, use `lower_case`.

## multiline """ comments

Instead of single-line """ comments:

```py
""" comment """
```

use multi-line """ comments:

```py
"""
comment
"""
```

## `AssertionError` with message

Instead of `assert` with message:

```py
assert a == b, "message"
```

use `AssertionError` with message:

```py
if a != b:
    raise AssertionError("message")
```

## `assert` without message

Use `assert` without message for simple invariants:

```py
assert a == b
```

---

[primer_kernel.py]: ../../src/protoprimer/main/protoprimer/primer_kernel.py
