---
feature_topic: FT_42_03_79_73
topic_title: reboot_env
topic_status: TEST
---

## Upgrading `venv`: full vs partial

A user should be able to specify `reboot` arg to bootstrap everything from scratch.

To re-create the `venv`, re-install the deps, and re-pin the versions, run:

```sh
./prime reboot
```

<details>
<summary>See the difference between <strong>full</strong> vs <strong>partial</strong> upgrade:</summary>

<br>

*   **Full** (auto): upgrade all dependency versions (respecting version ranges specified in `pyproject.toml`).

    The `reboot` sub-command automates the removal of the old `constraints.txt` file (to repopulate it).

    A missing `constraints.txt` allows re-capturing a new outcome of the dependency resolution for all dependencies.

    NOTE: This approach also destroys the old `venv` (any manual changes to the `venv` will be lost).

*   **Partial** (manual): upgrade a version only for one specific dependency.

    *   Remove only the line for that dependency from the `constraints.txt` file.

    *   Re-run the normal bootstrap:

        ```sh
        ./prime
        ```

    NOTE: This approach re-uses the old `venv` (and retains any manual changes).

</details>

## Implementation

*   Remove [FT_92_51_35_07.local_env_link.md][FT_92_51_35_07.local_env_link.md] to re-select the env.

    TODO: TODO_41_10_50_01.implement_env_selector.md: implement automatic env selection.

*   Re-select `python`.

    TODO: TODO_41_10_50_01.implement_env_selector.md: create FT (feature_topic) for `python` selector and reference it here.

*   Remove `venv` (including the extra one used by `uv`).

*   Remove `constraints.txt` to re-compute dependency versions (only via spec in `pyproject.toml`).

This feature also addresses [UC_61_12_90_59.upgrade_venv.md][UC_61_12_90_59.upgrade_venv.md].

See also [UC_44_82_07_30.requirements_lock.md][UC_44_82_07_30.requirements_lock.md].

---

[UC_44_82_07_30.requirements_lock.md]: ../use_case/UC_44_82_07_30.requirements_lock.md
[FT_92_51_35_07.local_env_link.md]: FT_92_51_35_07.local_env_link.md
[UC_61_12_90_59.upgrade_venv.md]: ../use_case/UC_61_12_90_59.upgrade_venv.md
