---
feature_topic: FT_63_61_24_94
topic_title: protoprimer dictionary
topic_status: TODO
---

This doc defines terms used in the vocabulary of [protoprimer][protoprimer_link] project.

---

<a id="entry_script"></a>

## "entry script"

See [FT_75_87_82_46.entry_script.md][FT_75_87_82_46.entry_script.md].

---

<a id="client_code"></a>

## "client code"

Phrase "client code" refers to the software project which relies on the `protoprimer` as a dependency.

---

<a id="main_func"></a>

## "main function"

This is just a pattern in `python` to factor `__main__` part into a `main` function -
see [more info][google_python_main_function].

---

<a id="proto_kernel"></a>

## "proto kernel"

`proto_kernel` is a **copy** of `protoprimer.primer_kernel` module stored **together** with the client code.

See [FT_90_65_67_62.proto_kernel.md][FT_90_65_67_62.proto_kernel.md].

---

<a id="ref_dir"></a>

## "ref dir"

The directory inside client code which is used as the base to specify most of the relative paths against.

For many projects, it is natural to suggest that ref dir = repo root.
However, it may not be the case (hence, the different name):
*   some repo may use a nested dir as the ref dir
*   in the case of [monorepo][monorepo_wiki], there can be more than one ref dir

The ref dir is the central concept of the `protoprimer` project where every file is
supposed to assume its own path relative to it.

This is the directory (base path) most of the paths are relative to.

See also:
*   "repo root"
*   "script dir"
---

<a id="repo_root"></a>

## "repo root"

The root directory of the repository with the client code.

See also:
*   "client code"

---

<a id="script_dir"></a>

## "script dir"

The `dirname` of the absolute path to the currently running script (without script `basename`).

This is the absolute path that allows keeping all other paths relative within the configuration.

---

[protoprimer_link]: https://github.com/uvsmtid/protoprimer
[google_python_main_function]: https://google.com/search?q=python+main+function
[monorepo_wiki]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monorepo
[FT_75_87_82_46.entry_script.md]: FT_75_87_82_46.entry_script.md
[FT_90_65_67_62.proto_kernel.md]: FT_90_65_67_62.proto_kernel.md
