---
feature_topic: FT_77_15_06_50
topic_title: dynamic_DAG
topic_status: TODO
---


# FT_77_15_06_50.dynamic_DAG

## Intro

The DAG builder constructs sub-graphs based on the current [entry_func][FT_25_62_13_55.entry_func.md].

This eliminates complex `if/else` logic within `EnvState`-s to avoid `python` restarts for specialized
modes like `EntryFunc.func_start_app` or `EntryFunc.func_call_lib`.

For example:
*   calling `EntryFunc.func_start_app` does not require most of `venv` creation and population steps
*   calling `EntryFunc.func_call_lib` must happen with no `python` restarts
*   both `EntryFunc.func_start_app` and `EntryFunc.func_call_lib` should not process any CLI args
*   while `EntryFunc.func_boot_env` should process CLI args, run through `python` restarts, and create `venv`

See also a more specific case:
[lib_access_to_config_data][UC_54_26_66_63.lib_access_to_config_data.md]

## DAG sub-graphs

Maintain a single `EnvState` list representing the "maximum" potential DAG.

Specialized modes simply use reduced sub-sets of this list.

## DAG addressing

Use a 1-dimensional list of names (`EnvState` enum) to address DAG nodes.

But an N-dimensional space (one of the enums listed in `GraphCoordinates`) to address DAG sub-graphs.

In other words:
*   `EnvState` enum items are 1-dimensional space.
*   `Bootstrap_*` classes live in N-dimensional space (mapped from 1-dimensional to N-dimensional by factories).

## Factory mapping

Each `EnvState` maps into a factory.

The factory instantiates one of the `Bootstrap_*` classes (based on `GraphCoordinates`).

The `Bootstrap_*` class then identifies its own dependencies (`EnvState` enums)
to be instantiated via their own factories.

## Dynamic DAG build

The full DAG is never constructed at once (statically).

Instead, DAG is built backwards from a specific target `EnvState`.

## Multiple targets

Since `GraphCoordinates` are unknown until discovered (through environment variables or CLI args),
the DAG sets new targets during execution.

For example, the role of `proto_main` shifts to:

*   pulling an initial target `EnvState.state_func_boot_env_executed`
*   executing that partial DAG: `EnvState.state_func_boot_env_executed` re-pulls the rest via `RunStrategy`
*   using the resulting context to determine the next target

## `GraphCoordinates`

Separate:

*   `EntryFunc`: known immediately via the entry point - see [entry_func][FT_25_62_13_55.entry_func.md]:
    *   `boot_env` (CLI processing)
    *   `start_app` (no CLI processing)
    *   API library (no CLI processing, no `python` restarts)
    *   direct `proto_main` execution (similar to `env_bootstrapper`)
*   `SubCommand`: known only after CLI argument processing - see [sub_command][FT_11_27_29_83.sub_command.md]

TODO: FT_77_15_06_50.dynamic_DAG.md:
      `sub_command` should affect how `GraphCoordinates` are set, but should not be a coordinate itself.

## `EnvState`-s

State names should remain stable and known at the start of a `StateStride`,
though they can be extended in an append-only fashion.

See [state_dependency][FT_68_54_41_96.state_dependency.md].

## Open TODOs

*   TODO: FT_77_15_06_50.dynamic_DAG.md:
          Rename `GraphCoordinates` to refer to what is currently called `EnvContext`.

*   TODO: FT_77_15_06_50.dynamic_DAG.md:
          Maybe `Env*` prefix in `EnvContext` and `EnvState` should be removed from such classes
          and replaced by more meningful.

*   TODO: FT_77_15_06_50.dynamic_DAG.md:
          Phase 2: simplify complex `Bootstrap_*` for specific `GraphCoordinates`-s. Adjust factories.

*   TODO: FT_77_15_06_50.dynamic_DAG.md:
          support different DAG depending on the `SubCommand`.

*   What is the role of `protoprimer.primer_kernel.RunStrategy`?

    At the moment, there is single strategy `ExitCodeReporter` (see `EnvState.state_func_boot_env_executed`).

    Do we want to make use of `RunStrategy` beyond that degenerate single case?

*   `ExecMode` enum: add items, explain, add FT_*.

[FT_25_62_13_55.entry_func.md]: FT_25_62_13_55.entry_func.md
[FT_11_27_29_83.sub_command.md]: FT_11_27_29_83.sub_command.md
[FT_68_54_41_96.state_dependency.md]: FT_68_54_41_96.state_dependency.md
[UC_54_26_66_63.lib_access_to_config_data.md]: ../use_case/UC_54_26_66_63.lib_access_to_config_data.md
