---
feature_topic: FT_87_17_49_36
topic_title: kernel copy
topic_status: TODO
---

## What is `kernel_copy`?

`kernel_copy` is a **copy** of `protoprimer.primer_kernel` module
stored **together** with the client code in the target client repo.

## `kernel_copy` vs `proto_kernel` vs primer_kernel`

The 3 are nearly identical but intentionally distinct:

*   `kernel_copy` is a concept - a **copy** of `protoprimer.primer_kernel` module.

*   `proto_kernel.py` is specific name that depends on the host repo choice (not always the same).

    The actual file name `proto_kernel.py` is the default (but can be almost anything).

*   `primer_kernel` is intentionally different from `proto_kernel.py` (to avoid confusing imports).

Only a **single** own copy of [`proto_kernel.py`][local_proto_kernel.py] is needed per repo to be used by all "entry scripts".

The `kernel_copy` for this repo is stored at:

```sh
./cmd/proto_code/proto_kernel.py
```

With some config, the copy can be moved (under any directory, under any name).

Although it is possible to run the copy directly, it is more flexible to use entry scripts (wrappers):

*   Entry script [`./prime`][local_prime] relies on the `boot_env` function (to prepare the `venv`).

*   Entry scripts in the [`./cmd`][cmd_dir] dir mostly rely on the `start_app` function (to start code from the `venv`).

## How is `kernel_copy` updated?

Specifically for this repo,
any changes to `protoprimer.primer_kernel`:

```
./src/protoprimer/main/protoprimer/primer_kernel.py
```

will be automatically reflected in `kernel_copy`:

```
./cmd/proto_code/proto_kernel.py
```

after running bootstrap via:

```sh
./prime
```

TODO: FT_34_97_51_30.optional_module.md:
      Review this section if/when `proto_code` becomes a combination of multiple files.

[proto_kernel_file]: ../../cmd/proto_code/proto_kernel.py
