---
feature_topic: FT_99_89_51_06
topic_title: venv_shell
topic_status: TODO
---

## Problem

One of the common needs is to have a shell with activated `venv`.

It is possible to do it manually, but:
1.  user has to figure out path to `venv`
2.  use the `source` command with an arg navigated to `venv/bin/activate`

It is inconvenient, especially because of the 1st step
when path to `venv` is in `env` [FT_89_41_35_82.conf_leap.md] config file.

## Solution

Provide a `venv_shell` command which does this automatically.

## Additional features

*   Be able to pass an arbitrary command line to be executed by that shell (e.g. to support non-interactive mode).

## Implementation

There is no (easy) way to avoid starting the bootstrap process specifically to
go through the [FT_89_41_35_82.conf_leap.md][FT_89_41_35_82.conf_leap.md] until path to `venv` is identified.

But, to make start time quicker, the package installation step can be avoided.
Also, to keep output clean, the default verbosity must be changed to "quiet".
This is achieved via setting specific environment variables:
*   TODO: which
*   TODO: which

TODO: update when implemented:
Another problem is CLI of the bootstrap is incompatible with passing arbitrary CLI args to the `venv` shell.
See [FT_62_88_55_10.CLI_compatibility.md][FT_62_88_55_10.CLI_compatibility.md].

TODO: update when implemented:
To make it work, the boostrap process has to support a special arg which passes those arbitrary CLI args
through multiple invocations of [FT_72_45_12_06.python_executable.md][FT_72_45_12_06.python_executable.md].
TODO: Which one is this?

---

[FT_89_41_35_82.conf_leap.md]: FT_89_41_35_82.conf_leap.md
[FT_72_45_12_06.python_executable.md]: FT_72_45_12_06.python_executable.md
[FT_62_88_55_10.CLI_compatibility.md]: FT_62_88_55_10.CLI_compatibility.md
