---
feature_story: FS_44_72_60_67
feature_title: python vs shell
feature_status: TODO
---

Eliminating the need to write shell-scripts is a side goal of `protoprimer`.

## What are `python` advantages?

There are multiple advantages of `python` over shell scripts (e.g. `bash`):

*   Test-ability - `bash` scripts are hardly test-able.

    There is simply not practice to write tests for `bash` scripts.

*   Trace-ability - failures do not produce stack traces in `bash`.

    Lack of trace-ability and test-ability encourage excessive logging for `bash` scripts (including `set -xv`).

*   More readable code in `python` than in shell scripts.

    Think of functions, classes, modules, ...

*   Clean support for various data structures.

    Start with `list`, `dict`, ...

*   Avoid initializing automatic error detection for sub-shell (e.g. `set -euo pipefail`).

    Execution of shell scripts (by default) allows undefined variables, failing commands, ...

*   Better control of local versus global variables.

*   No issues with `return` versus `exit`.

    When a script is `source`-d, one has to select `return`, otherwise, for a stand-alone script, `exit` must be used.

*   Unpredictable `alias`-es set by user in `bash`.

    They can be ignored by `command` but that make such `bash` script even more cumbersome to write.

*   Speed.

## What are shell advantages?

Primarily [WYSIWYG][WYSIWYG_wiki] for CLI.

Essentially, a shell script is what human would type interactively.
This implies succinct syntax (and may seem helpful, but quickly becomes cryptic).

---

[WYSIWYG_wiki]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WYSIWYG
